# Data and Task
In this project, you will be working with data extracted from a recommender systems type dataset: you are provided with a large set of interactions between subjects (e.g., online shopping users, or social network users) and items (e.g., shopping items, books, songs, or movies). Whenever a user "interacts" with an item, he/she has some experience the item (e.g., purchase the items, read the book, listen the songs, or watch the movie) and gives a mark or "rating" between 0 and 5 stars (5 stars indicating the best experience, and 1 or 0 stars indicating that the user didn't like the experience at all).

In this exercise, we will not be performing the recommendation task per se. Instead, we will identify anomalous users. In the dataset that you are provided with, some of the data was corrupted. Whilst most of the data comes from real life user-item interactions from a real-world application, some "users" are anomalous: they were generated by me according to some undisclosed procedure to simulate exceptional users with unexpected interactions. Most users have normal, expected interactions in real applications, so the anomalous users only account for a very small proportion of the users. Thus, identifying those anomalous users are important to the application, but it can be very challenging.

You are provided with two data frames: the first one ("X") contains the interactions provided to you, and the second one ("y") contains the labels for the users. There is a set of 1,000 unique items the users interact with, ranging from item ID of 0 to item ID 999, which is fixed throughout the competition. Note that it is not necessarily that all items appear in one set of data samples given during the competition, meaning that some of the items may not be rated by any user in a user set within a specific period of time.

As you can see, the three columns in "ratings" correspond to the user ID, the item ID and the rating. Thus, each row of "ratings" contains a single interaction. For instance, if the row "142, 152, 5" is present, this means that the user with ID 142 has given the movie 152 the rating 5 stars.

The dataframe "labels" has two columns. In the first column we have the user ids, whilst the second column contains the labels. A label of 1 indicates that the user is 'anomalous', whilst a label of 0 denotes a natural, normal user (coming from real life interactions).

For instance, if the labels matrix contains the line "142, 1", it means that all of the ratings given by the user with id 142 is an anomalous user. This means all lines in the dataframe "ratings" which start with the userID 142 correspond to fake interactions.

# Evaluation
Your task is to be able to classify unseen instances as either anomalies or non anomalies.

There are far more normal users than anomalies in the dataset, which makes this a very heavily unbalanced dataset. Thus, accuracy will not be a good measure of performance, since simply predicting that every user is normal will give good accuracy. Thus, we need to use some other evaluation metrics (see slides and lecture note from week 3).

Suitable EVALUATION METRICS include: AUC (AREA UNDER CURVE), PRECISION, RECALL, and F1 score. The main metric will be the AREA UNDER CURVE, and it will by default be used to rank teams. This means your programs should return an anomaly score for each user (the higher the score, the more likely the model think the sample is anomalous).

Before Week 9, each team is required to develop a model using the data `training_data_with_labels.npz` that contains labeled data. You can leverage the data in whatever the way you believe is right. Thereafter every week, we will evaluate the performance of each team's model on an unseen test set I will provide, in terms of AUC, and rank the teams by AUC. We will release the class labels for the test dataset after we finalize the ranking for each week. Each team then can utilize this newly released class labels (together with the previously released labeled data) to develop a better model.

The difficulty implied by the generation procedure of the anomalies WILL CHANGE as the project evolves: depending on how well the teams are doing, I will generate easier or harder anomalies.

The first round of competition will take place after recess (week 9): this means that I will release the first test set on the Thursday of week 9, and you must submit at least one valid set of anomaly scores to Codabench before the Wednesday of week 10 at 11:59 PM. Your submission will be a .npz file (check the exemplar file attached and the code below that generates the .npz file for detail). We will then look at the results together during Thursday's class. Each group will be limited to no more than THREE submissions per week. The best result is taken to rank in the leaderboard.

We will check everyone's performance in this way every week (once on week 10, once on week 11, and once on week 12).

Whilst performance (expressed in terms of AUC and your ranking compared to other teams) at each of the check points (weeks 9 to 12 inclusive) is an important component of your final grade, the project report and the detail of the various methods you will have tried will also be very important. Ideally, to get perfect marks (A+) for this component, you should try at least two supervised methods and one unsupervised methods, as well as be ranked among the best teams (top 3) in terms of performance.

For the project report, I will be especially interested in your analysis and reasoning. High marks will be given to any team that is able to qualitatively and quantitatively analyze the performance of different versions of your models, delivering convincing empirical justification about why the models behave in a particular way. Exemplar qualitative analyses include visualization of feature representations learned in hidden layers, distribution of anomaly scores for the two classes, reasoning over typical failure and correct cases, etc. In terms of quantitative analysis, in addition to general AUC performance of your overall models, other useful quantitative results may include ablation study (i.e., how each component of your model contributes to the overall performance), hyperparameter sensitivity analysis, analysis of computational cost, etc.

The performance part of the grading will be based the leaderboard ranking of your group averaged over the three weeks (50% on the first two rounds of ranking, and 50% on the last round of ranking).

# Leaderboard Instructions
Create an account on Codabench using your school email address. Then, click on the competition link and register for the competition. Once you complete the registration, you will be automatically enrolled in the competition.

Only one registration per group is needed; more registration will not be approved, as we rely on the registration to strictly enforce the THREE submissions per week.

# Submision Format
Save your predictions as a .npz file The key must be named predictions, otherwise the scoring program will not be able to read your submission.

Zip the file eg. "submission.npz" → "submission.zip"

Upload "submission.zip" to Codabench
